<!DOCTYPE html>
<head>
  
</head>
<body>
  <h1>Multilingualism - Language awareness</h1>
  <p>Multilingualism is the use of two or more languages by an individual speaker or a community. Language acquisition is the process by which humans acquire the capacity to perceive and understand language, as well as to produce words and sentences to communicate. Language acquisition usually refers to first language acquisition, which studies infants' acquisition of their native language.</p>
  <p><b>How do we know if multilingual students are faster than monolingual students?</b></p>
  <p>Study which supports that multilingual people are faster than monolingual people as they’re brains process information faster. Also this study explains how monolingual peoples’ brains had to work harder than the brain of multilingual people (Shute, 2013). This study was made by Brian Gold, a neuroscientist at the University Of Kentucky College Of Medicine in Lexington. The study was of older people who grew up bilingual, who did an attention-switching task, a skill that typically fades with age. He compared the multilingual seniors with monolingual seniors, and found that monolingual seniors’ brains were working harder to complete the task than the ones of multilingual people. There are arguments which support that multilingual people are faster at doing certain tasks than monolingual people, and that in these situations the monolingual people brains had to work harder than the ones from multilingual people. One of the studies also said that people who speak multiple languages make the best employees (Hogan-Brun, 2017). This is because multilingual people have multicultural awareness as they come from different backgrounds and, because the structure of a language we speak changes and influences the way we see the world around us. Therefore, speakers of different languages display different mental models and different semantic associations. And they come up with different solutions and ideas making the company prosper. Also there’s the Whorf-Sapir hypothesis which supports this claim as it states that language influences the way we think, since there’s not a translation for everything in different languages. This connects to neuroscience, as by learning a new language our neurons are changing and our brain makes new ones to replace the old ones, so that we can store more information. The counter arguments are: There is an article which talks about brain plasticity and, explains what it is. Basically brain plasticity is the process by which our brains can change and create new neural pathways by learning from experience (Alban). Therefore if we increase our brain plasticity it will, in theory make us faster, and it’s not only by learning a new language that we can increase our brain plasticity. We can also increase it by playing sports, like yoga or meditation. Also brain plasticity can make us smarter meaning that monolingual people who do a lot of brain training to develop more brain plasticity can be smarter than multilingual people.</p>
  <p><b>How do we know if multilingualism can prevent brain diseases?</b></p>
  <p>Many studies done about whether multilingualism could prevent or delay brain diseases were analysed and they all say that multilingualism can’t prevent brain diseases however it can delay some of them for at least 4 years (Moskowitz, 2011), (Sauer, 2014) and (Sauer, A secret weapon in dementia prevention: the bilingual advantage, 2013). One of the studies, which was about dementia, evaluated people of around the age of 66 years old, every one of them had some level of dementia. What was found is that in average, multilingual people were able to delay some types of dementia by 4 years and a half. Speaking two or more languages can delay dementia because it requires a specific type of brain training and, switching between languages requires a specific type of attention. Another of the studies, which was about dementia, tested about 450 patients who had been diagnosed with Alzheimer’s, half the patients spoke at least two languages and half only spoke one. Whilst all patients had similar levels of cognitive impairment it was found that the multilingual had been diagnosed with Alzheimer’s, in average, four years later. The reason why knowing at least two languages allows us to delay certain brain diseases is because “It seems that constantly and actively controlling two languages is like a workout for the brain. It challenges our grey cells and keeps them from degenerating” said the researchers in their self-published study. The counter arguments are: Different studies about brain plasticity showed that we can increase brain plasticity in a number of ways and therefore this can also, in theory, help to delay brain diseases. It’s not untrue that knowing a second language can help delay some brain diseases, however it’s not the only thing that can help delay them. As long as we work our grey cells enough, its already one step to delay them even if for a little longer. Languages is just one way.</p>
  <p><b>Is being multilingual beneficial for our future?</b></p>
  <p>Being multilingual is beneficial for our future as, multilingual people are able to delay brain diseases and can think and react faster. From the previous studies we’ve learnt that multilingual people, when learning a second or third language are training their grey cells and replacing their neurons, thus making them gain the ability to react faster than monolingual people. Also by knowing another language and training our brain cells it means that we can delay certain types of brain diseases, for at least more four years than monolingual people. Hence, I believe that it is beneficial for our future to learn at least a Second language. The counter arguments are: Brain plasticity can be increased by a number of things, like doing yoga and meditation, therefore learning a language is not the only thing that can delay brain diseases and make us react faster.</p>
  <p><b>Conclusion</b></p>
  <p>In conclusion being multilingual can delay brain diseases and it does mean that in some cases that multilingual students are faster and smarter than monolingual students. However learning or knowing a second language is not the only thing that can delay brain diseases and make people react faster or be smarter. Increasing brain plasticity, training our grey cells and replace our neurons, will also do it. I found this quotes which I think are very interesting as, Charlemagne says that “To have another language is to possess a second soul.” and Frank Smith says that “One language sets you in a corridor for life. Two languages open every door along the way.” I think their very interesting because I never thought about having another soul just because I know a second language and, because I do believe that it’s true that by knowing a second language does open more doors for us in life. As not only knowing more than one language means you can get work easier sometimes, but it also means that you can communicate with people from other countries in their own language, which I find very useful as by what Nelson Mandela said “If you talk to a man in a language he understands, that goes to his head. If you talk to him in his own language, that goes to his heart.”</p>
</body>
</html>
